Update installation pages (#1273)
PelicanPlatform/pelican: docs/pages/install.mdx

# Install Pelican

This document lists the operating system requirements for Pelican and explains how a user can download and install Pelican.

## Before Starting

Pelican executables can run as a **client** or a **server**.

> For client usage, such as accessing the data, you can download and install a Pelican package or Pelican binary [following the instructions below](#install-pelican-binary).

Reviewer: Maybe "To use the client for interacting with data, download and install the Pelican package or Pelican Binary"?

> For server usage, such as serving your data to a Pelican data federation or start a new Pelican data federation, you need to run Pelican using [Pelican Docker images](./install/docker.mdx). It is not recommended to run Pelican server with a binary. Although possible, additional software dependencies and configurations are required to allow the server to be functional.

Reviewer: Small typo -- "... to a Pelican data federation or _to_ start a new Pelican ..."

> For server usage, such as serving your data to a Pelican data federation or start a new Pelican data federation, you need to run Pelican using [Pelican Docker images](./install/docker.mdx). It is not recommended to run Pelican server with a binary. Although possible, additional software dependencies and configurations are required to allow the server to be functional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For server usage, such as serving your data to a Pelican data federation or start a new Pelican data federation, you need to run Pelican using [Pelican Docker images](./install/docker.mdx). It is not recommended to run Pelican server with a binary. Although technically possible, additional software dependencies and configurations are required to make the binary functional for server usage. 
```

## Supported Operating Sytems

Pelican supports the following operating systems, when running as a **client**:

* [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (CentOS, Fedora, Alma, Rocky, or openSUSE)](./install/rhel.mdx)
* [Debian or Ubuntu](./install/debian.mdx)
* [Alpine Linux](./install/alpine.mdx)
* [macOS](./install/macos.mdx)

> * Windows

Reviewer 2: Is Windows supported only via Docker image? If so, then maybe 

```suggestion
* Windows ([via Docker](./install/docker.mdx))
```

Author: It's a complicated story. We do produce Windows binary and user can download it, but most of our devs don't use Windows machine so I'm not confident instructing user to do it. I'll try find a Windows machine and fill out that page.

Reviewer: IIRC, we at least try to make sure Pelican is installable on Windows because the client is supposed to work across platforms. All the servers are packed into the same binary, so anyone who wants to run more than `pelican object get/put`-type commands will need the container.

- 2 represents a bug fix/patch release

> The download section above always shows the latest released version of Pelican and we recommend you to use the latest feature or major release version so it includes the latest bug fixes and features. If you would like to download a previous version, please refer to our [GitHub release page](https://github.com/PelicanPlatform/pelican/releases).

Reviewer 2: Is this statement still true with the newer version of the Downloads table?

Author: I'll update this expression here

## Install Pelican Binary

### Linux

* [Install Pelican on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (CentOS, Fedora, Alma, Rocky, or openSUSE)](./install/rhel.mdx)
* [Install Pelican on Debian or Ubuntu](./install/debian.mdx)
* [Install Pelican on Alpine Linux](./install/alpine.mdx)

### macOS

* [Install Pelican on macOS](./install/macos.mdx)

## Verify Pelican Is Installed

> If you installed Pelican as a standalone binary, you need to add Pelican to your `PATH` environment variable before proceeding.

1. Run the following command after you installed Pelican RPM

    ```bash
    which pelican
    ```

    It should output

    ```console

>     /bin/pelican

Reviewer: I don't think this will be true if they install the client on Windows.

Reviewer 2: I think this depends on how the client is "installed" on Windows. 
From the old version, it looks like using on Windows required using a Docker container.
So then the question is whether the Docker container being launched is still a Linux environment; if so, then these instructions are fine.

Author: For Windows users, I'd like to have someone test the installation of the Windows binary then decide how I should revise the instruction. I've separate verification for Windows from Linux/macOS, and use `where` command for Windows, but I want to make sure that the Windows installer adds the binary to PATH, otherwise I'll update instruction for it.

    ```

> 2. Test Pelican client function by running an **object copy** command that download a test file from [Open Science Data Federation (OSDF)](https://osg-htc.org/services/osdf) to your current directory

Reviewer: Small typo -- "**object copy** command that download***s***"

    ```bash

>     $ pelican -f osg-htc.org object copy /ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt .

Reviewer: I think I'm in favor of promoting pelican-style URLs wherever we can. Can you switch the command to:
```
$ pelican object copy pelican://osg-htc.org/ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt .
```

Reviewer 2: I second this suggestion.
